This Blender addon was created to try to plug a curious omission in
Blender’s functionality.

Much of the contents of a Blender document consists of “data blocks”,
which contain the information for each object that is specific to the
type of that object. You will likely be familiar with using Shift-D to
duplicate an object, which also duplicates its data block. For
example, when you duplicate a light in this way, this also duplicates
the settings (power, size, node graph etc) for the light.

But you can also duplicate an object with Alt-D, which creates a new
object that continues to share the same datablock as the original
object. So if you do this with a light, you will find that changing
the settings for either the duplicate or the original will affect the
other one as well. Any number of objects of the same type can share
a datablock in this way.

This characteristic is indicated in the object-type-specific tab in
the Properties window: at the top of that, there is a popup menu that
lets you select among the available datablocks of the same type to
attach to that object.

The World settings (including the background image) for different
scenes in a document can also share World datablocks. While you
cannot Shift-D or Alt-D to duplicate a World, you still get the popup
menu in the World-specific property tab for the current scene.

But this does not apply to render settings. Each scene in your
document has its own render settings, and even though they are stored
in the document in data structures separate from the scene block
itself, there is no way to share them between scenes.

Which is why I created this Copy Scene Render Settings addon. It adds
a panel to the Render Properties tab, titled “Copy Render Settings”.
When you expand this panel, you will see a popup menu titled “From
Scene”, listing the scenes in your document other than the current
one, and a “Copy” button below that. Simply select the scene *from*
which you want to copy the render settings *to* this one, and click
the Copy button. That’s it.

Lawrence D'Oliveiro <ldo@geek-central.gen.nz>
2020 March 3
